---
title: storm chasers
date: '2009-07-31 00:00:00'
permalink: "/2009/07/31/20090731storm-chasers/"
categories:
- Rants
- Uncategorized
author: Jennifer
layout: post
---

I wouldn&#8217;t call the weather up here unpredictable.  The flat plains really allow you to see what&#8217;s coming with ample lead time, but the people here get so excited!  Days before a storm hits, our news doggedly follows its&#8217; progression, interrupting tv and radio alike with bulletins on it&#8217;s path 🙂 sometimes it&#8217;s smoke and mirrors but when a real storm hits, it is truly like nothing i&#8217;ve ever seen.  The wind, the hail, the speed! it&#8217;s so wild!!!

Jennifer and i put the kids down last night while the tv flashed with a tornado warning.  we discussed our emergency plan: run and hide!  my initial instinct is to hole up in crockett-  I have seats for the kids, picnic fare, a sleeping bag&#8230; but Jennifer&#8217;s estimation is that cars can get sucked away so we need something stable. As our discussion intensifies (i still vote car) we look outside and the sky has turned green! we have  greenage in madison!! and instead of rethinking our vote to put the kids in bed, we run upstairs to the rooftop deck so that we can see it better!  the clouds are rolling in and the winds&#8217; picked up whipping trees with the water in white caps. So cool!  it&#8217;s a little crazy to be standing there watching it speed towards you, i look over and Jennifer&#8217;s face mirrors my rapture. if I&#8217;m going to be crazy, i wouldn&#8217;t want anyone else beside me but him 🙂
