---
title: hello cello
date: 2013-02-17 00:00:00 Z
permalink: "/2013/02/17/2013216hello-cello/"
categories:
- Uncategorized
author: Jennifer
layout: post
---

essay on early cello

&#8220;I stand; feet apart, back straight, the crushing sound of styrofoam resonating throughout the stark walls as I squeeze my &#8220;violin&#8221; egg carton between shoulder and chin. I decide then and there; I hate the violin. &nbsp;I look longingly at my true hearts desire nestled in the corner of the makeshift orchestra room at Jonesboro elementary school. What I want more than anything is the cello.&#8221;

An orchestra is a complex balance of notes and tones, of wood and resonance, made up of four similar looking &#8211; but very different &#8211; instruments.

The violin makes up the smallest and most popular of the orchestra instruments. &nbsp;It is held between the neck and shoulder and is usually played with a bow vibrating each string. &nbsp;The violin&#8217;s capabilities reach the highest registers within the orchestra. &nbsp;While all of the instruments blend together to express a song, it is the violin that embodies the melody.

The viola, a slightly larger looking version of the violin, is actually a completely different animal. &nbsp;While still played primarily with a bow, the tones and resonance of the viola have a much deeper pitch. &nbsp;This instrument usually carries a secondary tempo working in tandem with the notes and tempo of the violins to complete the musical dialogue.

The cello is the only instrument built to be played from a stationary position. &nbsp;It has a endpin or long rod that protrudes form the bottom of the wooden body in order to angle the instrument for playing position. &nbsp;The cello has a low melodic sound that signals a lower resonance of tempo. Its&#8217; melody is usually the anthesis to the violin.&nbsp;

<span style="color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Helvetica; font-size: medium; letter-spacing: normal; line-height: normal; ">&nbsp;</span>
