---
id: 557
title: Eagle strong!
date: 2014-12-04T02:16:56+00:00
author: Jennifer
layout: post
guid: http://localhost:8888/wordpress/2014/12/04/2014123accolades/
permalink: /2014/12/04/2014123accolades/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
I had the honor today to attend my dads retirement ceremony (excuse the video I had 2 kiddos asleep in my lap:)&nbsp;

The poem he quotes is&nbsp;as follows:

To laugh often and much;&nbsp;  
To win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children;  
To earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends;  
To appreciate beauty, to find the best in others;  
To leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition;  
To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived.  
This is to have succeeded.

<p style="margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px">
  <strong>Ralph Waldo Emerson</strong>&nbsp;(1803 &#8211; 1882)
</p>

 

It was so incredibly moving to hear men and women alike talk&nbsp;about the impact my father&nbsp;has had on their lives and that of the military reserve&nbsp;as a whole. There were people who spoke about his mentorship &#8211;&nbsp;his levelheadedness &#8211;&nbsp;his calm. I stood by and recalled memories where this&nbsp;<span>man I loved&nbsp;to threw me in the deep end but&nbsp;not to let me sink.</span>where&nbsp;I too leaned on him&nbsp;to be my&nbsp;rock. &nbsp;Where I could trust him&nbsp;to remain&nbsp;calm (even in the most upheavaled of moments:)&nbsp;He is a man who embodies so much of what I hope to accomplish through life.&nbsp;I am so proud to have both&nbsp;parents who have served our country. Army Strong!

Here&#8217;s to the next chapter!!!!